Problem N1 - new edition

Added by Volodymyr Kruglyak 54 days ago

Dear All
In light of the discussions informed by solutions of problem N1 set at M12
meeting in Bangalore, I propose to change the definition of the problem to the
one below. The rational is based on the points raised before and also repeated
here:

(a) The length is irrelevant to the dispersion calculation (e.g. one could
    even use PBC)
(b) The cell size, the sampling frequency, and the bandwidth of excitation
    should be up to the researcher
(c) The excitation geometry (field profile, amplitude, and direction) should
    also be up to the researcher, provided that the spin waves are linear.
(d) The field should be applied in the all three symmetry directions, while
    its value should be large enough to saturate the sample.
(e) The values of parameters are chosen equal to those accepted for Permalloy
    at muMag.
(f) The thickness is chosen to be small enough to safely assume the dynamics
    uniform along the thickness, while I will propose a fully 3D problem
    separately.
(g) The width is selected to facilitate observation of some standing modes in
    the cross-section, while their frequency should be not too much higher
    than that of the uniform FMR mode. I believe that these are all points I
    have, but I will add more if and as necessary.
    We will base the Intermag digest on the solutions we have obtained so far,
    while I propose to tackle the new one (for a publication) in the following
    way:

    (a) Exeter will obtain a solution for a very long but finite sample using
        OOMMF and absorbing boundary conditions.
    (b) Kolkata will obtain a solution for an infinitely long sample using
        OOMMF and periodic boundary conditions.
    (c) Madras (or Sothampton?) will obtain a solution for an infinitely long
        sample using Nmag and periodic boundary conditions.
    (d) Southampton (or Madras?) will obtain a solution for a very long but
        finite sample using Nmag and no additional boundary conditions.
    (e) Poznan (or Ferrara?) will supply an analytical solution for an
        infinitely long sample.

    This will let us to avoid duplication of efforts.

What do you think?

"To calculate the dispersion relation of small amplitude (linear regime) spin
waves propagating in a thin film magnetic stripe with rectangular cross-section.

Geometry:
The cross section is rectangular (50 nm width x 1 nm thickness).
The length is long enough to make the notion of dispersion omega(k) meaningful
and make the effect of the ends minimised, if any.
The static bias field of 10.1 KOe is applied (1) along the length of stripe, (2)
in-plane orthogonal to the length of the stripe, and (3) perpendicular to the
plane of the stripe.

Material parameters (similar to those of Permalloy):
A = 1.3e-11 J/m (1.3e-6 erg/cm)
Ms = 8.0e5 A/m (800 emu/cc)
K = 0.0
For dynamics calculated using the Landau-Lifshitz equation,
gamma = 221 km/(As)

The following outputs are desired for comparison at each direction of the
applied magnetic field:
(a) The dispersion of spin waves propagating along the length of the sample in a
form of a bitmap of FFT amplitude as a function of k and omega, where k is the
wave number in the direction of the length of the sample.
(b) The dispersion of spin waves propagating along the length of the sample as a
function omega(k), obtained via post processing data in (a).
(c) The frequency line-width for spin waves propagating along the length of the
sample as a function delta_omega(omega), obtained via post processing data in
(a).
(d) The amplitude of spin waves propagating along the length of the sample as a
function amplitude(omega), obtained via post processing data in (a).

Comments:
The dispersion should be first calculated for each pixel in the cross-section of
the sample.
Then, the absolute values of the dispersions obtained for each pixel should be
summed up to yield the final plot (a), therefore containing all dispersion
branches.
The post processed data in (b)-(d) is desired so that a detailed comparison can
be made between solutions.
The damping is not specified but should be chosen close to or smaller than the
typical values in Permalloy, e.g. of the order of or smaller than 0.01-0.02.
Please see the µMAG standard problem strategy page for information on
publicizing your results."

